hi it's part of into the food and
welcome to basics
[Music]
in this episode we're going to making a
cottage pie which is a firm family
favorite but great one for the freezer
and a dish that we made at it so the
first thing we need to do is make our
meat sauce so here's the ingredients we
need we've got 500 grams of bits beef
you could use lamb which can turn into a
shepherd's pie but the recipe would be
exactly the same we've got some chopped
onions and chopped carrot or some
chopped celery a bit of fresh thyme a
couple of bay leaves you've got some
plain flour it's in tomato puree some
oil some Worcestershire sauce some beef
stock and a splash of red wine and
that's what we need for our meat sauce
the first thing we need to do is we need
to get our pan on a medium heat we need
to grab two tablespoons of oil but we're
going to sizzle this and we're just
gonna render it down but it would stir
occasionally and it can grow this rain
like it's cooking like eventually like
10-15 minutes that will be beautiful and
caramelized so don't worry about all
this liquid that's coming out this might
seem counterintuitive it but this is a
really good way of browning off beef you
just let it simmer and its own juices
and that just intensifies the flavor of
the beef and once those juice
to reduce down the beef starts sizzling
with its own fat and it goes lovely and
crispy and that's how you get
[Music]
now fetchers had about ten minutes in
the debate which has been cooking you
juggling and stirring it and the bench
is all softened and the big we've got a
lovely and brown and Caroline
so to this we're going to add about a
tablespoon of flour now this is just
gonna give us a lovely thick sauce and
then we're gonna good squeeze of tomato
puree right so about a tablespoon it's
mostly puree once that's all really well
mixed
cuff the shakes
Worcestershire sauce flashes red wine
[Music]
and then we've got about half a liter of
beef stock that's just going to be
sturdy
we're just going to leave that to simmer
from up 30 minutes until you have a rich
nicely thickened beefy sauce that's how
sources have 30 minutes it's looking
rich and delicious and the gravies just
thickened enough so that's ready to go
into our dish we're just going to tip
our sauce straight into our dish so for
the next part of our cottage pie we need
to make the topping the toppings nothing
more than mashed potato with a bit of
cheese through here I've got a cure
potatoes which I'll put some cold salted
water gonna bring it out to the boil and
when they're nice and fluffy and soft
we're going to drain them and relieve
it's drained well and then we're going
to mash them with some milk and a bit of
cheese and a bit of butter and that's
gonna be the topping for a cottage pie
I've tastings of cuts and we've just
left them steam dry which means we've
left them alone so a lot of their steam
comes off them and they're not sitting
there and liquid and we're going to
season them with grated nutmeg and some
salt and pepper
then we're gonna wear boxer and the
splash of milk full grated cheese and
we're just going to mash that down into
a lumpy mash all the taters are crushed
just gonna give everything a nice stir
mix it all together and that is the
topping to our cottage pie
now we've got the two elements ready
we've got a match topic and a meat sauce
and our pie dish we just need to bring
it in together
then it's ready to go and we're just
gonna spread it over like so using a
side of the dish like this you take your
topping and you work your way around it
[Music]
where the top has the bit more cheese
over that goes so that's it ready to go
in the oven and we're gonna pop it the
oven for 30 to 35 minutes and that's it
until it's golden and beautiful and
ready to come out
always remember to pop it on a tray
because you don't want that sauce
bubbling over the side and bubbling on
to the bottom of your oven and causing a
mess my cottage pies had 30 minutes and
there it is looking beautiful deep
golden crispy around the edges you know
that the sauce underneath is all bubbly
and delicious and I'm going to leave
that to rest for about 10 minutes and
then it's going to be ready to eat so
that's how you make a brilliant cottage
pie thank you very much for watching
pasta basics
don't forget stay safe get cooking
[Music]